MEN-5301: Documenation: intro, feature desc and config fields (#1667)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 08.Server-integration/04.Mender-Gateway/99.Configuration-reference/docs.md

---

> title: Configuration reference

Author: Well, to be precise it's "Configuration options" within "Configuration file" section. I'm renaming this to "Configuration file", but maybe we should tweak the other section titles as well?

taxonomy:
    category: reference
---

```json
{
    "Features": {
        "mTLS": {
            "Enabled": true,
            "CACertificate": "/var/lib/mender/ca-cert.pem",
            "MenderUsername": "gateway@mender.io",
            "MenderPassword": "password123",
            "BlacklistPath": "/var/lib/mender/mtls-blacklist.txt"
        },
        "ArtifactsProxy": {
            "Enabled": true,
            "GatewayURL": "https://gateway.mender.io",
            "DomainWhitelist": ["s3.amazonaws.com", "s3.my-min.io"]

>         }

Reviewer: I would put this part first - it really doesn't matter for the json parsing and this is the flag ship feature.

        "InsecureSkipVerify": false
    },
    "DebugLog": false
}
```

### Features
#### mTLS
<dl>
<dt>Enabled</dt> <dd>Enable forwarding of mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication requests.</dd>
<dt>CACertificate</dt> <dd>Path to Certificate Authority (CA) Certificate used
to sign authorized client certificates.</dd>
<dt>BlacklistPath</dt> <dd>Path to file listing blacklisted client certificate serial numbers.
The file is a new-line separated list of hexadecimal serial numbers.</dd>
<dt>MenderUsername</dt> <dd>Username (email) for the user representing the API Gateway.
This user will preauthorize devices with authorization to the gateway.
</dd>
<dt>MenderPassword</dt> <dd>Password credential to the <em>MenderUsername</em>.</dd>
</dl>
!!!! *Mender Enterprise Only*: Using
!!!! [RBAC](../../../02.Overview/12.Role.Based.Access.Control) you can create a new
!!!! user with a dedicated role to the user access scope to the
!!!! [preauthorization API
!!!! endpoint](/api/#management-api-device-authentication-preauthorize) for the
!!!! gateway user.

#### ArtifactProxy

<dl>
<dt>Enabled</dt> <dd>Enable the Local Artifact Proxy.</dd>
<dt>GatewayURL</dt> <dd>The self-URL to the gateway.</dd>

> <!-- Can't this be infered from ServerCertificate CommonName field? -->

Reviewer: It could. But the idea of having this explicit config field is that it will match also the `ServerUrl` in the client. This will make it easy to troubleshoot as there is no "deduced" information about the topology of the network.

Please remove this comment ;)

Author: Thanks, will do :)

> <dt>DomainWhitelist</dt> <dd>List of whitelisted domains for proxying artifacts.</dd>

Reviewer: Maybe:
```suggestion
<dt>DomainWhitelist</dt> <dd>List of whitelisted domains to proxy artifacts from.</dd>
```

</dl>

### HTTP
<dl>
<dt>Enabled</dt> <dd>Enable proxy of plain HTTP requests.</dd>
<dt>Listen</dt> <dd>TCP network address to listen for incomming connections.</dd>
</dl>

! Do not enable [*HTTP*](#http) on public or untrusted networks - always use
! [*HTTPS*](#https) whenever possible.

### HTTPS
<dl>
<dt>Enabled</dt> <dd>Enable proxy of TLS-terminated HTTP requests.</dd>
<dt>Listen</dt> <dd>TCP network address to listen for incomming connections.</dd>
<dt>ServerCertificate</dt> <dd>Path to the public server certificate representing the server.</dd>
<dt>ServerKey</dt> <dd>Path to certificate key file.</dd>
</dl>

### UpstreamServer

<dl>

> <dt>URL</dt> <dd>The upstream server URL for proxying device requests.</dd>

Reviewer: I suggest to be more explicit here:
```suggestion
<dt>URL</dt> <dd>The upstream server URL for proxying device HTTP requests.</dd>
```

<dt>InsecureSkipVerify</dt> <dd>Skip verification of certificate claims.</dd>
</dl>

### DebugLog

> Show debugging logs.

Author: To be honest, I'm not sure why this option lives in the configuration file. Wouldn't it make more sense to have this as a CLI flag? Maybe even allow filtering by log levels other than debug as well.

> Perhaps mention the default file (systemd would put it in)?

I'm not sure what file you refer to, @lluiscampos could you help me? :)

> Show debugging logs.

Reviewer: Thanks @alfrunes for raising this question.

I think we should remove it from the config file - we don't have such an configuration option in other components, have we? (at least on the client side of things I am confident we don't do this).

So I agree with you it should be a CLI flag. Can you remove it now from here and create a follow-up task for it?

> Show debugging logs.

Reviewer: @alfrunes Yes! Let's do that
